Author Response Thank you for your recommendations.
Please see attached letter.
Andrew Doan, MD, PhD Author Response File: Author Response.pdf
Author Response Thank you for your recommendations.
Please see attached letter.
We have added additional references to support discussion about low sexual desire and also listed performance anxiety as a cause for psychogenic ED.
Thank you, Andrew Doan, MD, PhD Author Response File: Author Response.pdf
Using three case studies as examples, the authors’ present a comprehensive literature review on the current research related to pornography induced erectile dysfunction (PIED).
Correctly asserting that ‘tube sites’ dramatically altered the content, delivery and intensity of online pornography beginning in 2006, the authors argue that internet pornography needs to be considered as a possible factor in the startlingly rise of ED among men under 40.
The review of the literature on ED and pornography is comprehensive and well argued, if a bit long and slightly repetitive.
However, the level of detail adds weight to the convincing case made in the article for the inclusion of online pornography in ED diagnoses.
My primary concern with the article has to do with the three case studies.
The case studies seem irrelevant in that they do not answer the methodological problems with other studies outlined in the beginning of the article nor do they meaningfully elaborate on the neurological connections outlined in the discussion.
This article seems more like a comprehensive literature review rather than a research article.
My suggestion is to alter the stated intent of the article to better fit its strengths.
For example, the abstract implies that the article is primarily a research article on three case studies when, in fact, the case studies play a minor role.
The authors can assert the hypotheses based on current literature and call for more research.
The case studies could be used as examples for how the hypothesis may be seen in patients as a way of integrating the case into the central argument.
Overall, the piece is very strong on literature and makes a convincing case for its main argument about the relevancy of internet pornography to the health of young men’s sexual functioning.
But, the case studies, as currently framed, seem distracting and irrelevant.
With a bit of repositioning however, they can make a meaningful contribution.
Please see attached document.
Comments for author File: Comments.pdf
Dear Janice, Our revised article is attached.
This letter summarizes the changes made at the request of the reviewers: • The paper has been restructured as a review with clinical reports, which led to replacing the title and abstract.
• The relevance of the clinical reports has been clarified.
These clinical reports foreshadow the type of research recommended by the authors, in which subjects would ideally remove the variable of porn use to improve investigation of internet porn’s effects.
• A few highly relevant studies have come out in the last couple of months and they have been integrated into the paper.
• The material about some users’ need for more extreme material to address concerns about sexual performance has been moved to the (b) Decreased Reward Sensitivity (Hypoactivity) section.
• The 2 specific comments of the second reviewer were incorporated or led to correction, as appropriate.
• A few minor grammatical and spacing errors have been corrected and the wording of some sections has been clarified.
Andrew Doan, M.D., Ph.D. CDR MC USN A-DMOP USNS Mercy, Med OIC Timor-Leste and Vietnam Head, Dept.
of Mental Health Addictions & Resilience Research Staff Ophthalmologist & Ocular Pathologist Naval Medical Center San Diego Assistant Professor, Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences & Loma Linda University
Park, B. et al Review This paper explores the potential link between negative sexual outcomes and excessive use of internet pornography among men under age 40.
The authors present three case studies and related literature in which excessive internet pornography use appears to be linked to diminished libido, difficulty achieving and/or maintaining an erection during sexual contact with a partner.
GENERAL COMMENTS: Originality/Novelty: The question posed by the authors is very timely and well defined.
The evidence presented and the discussion of potential links between sexual dysfunction excessive internet pornography use is compelling, as this is becoming a public health issue for young men.
Significance: The authors present three case studies; the bulk of their discussion relates to previous research by others who have examined psychological and neurological associations that might be linked to this issue.
The authors acknowledge that this field of research is in its infancy and that a critical mass of evidence does not yet exist to support a causal association between excessive internet pornography use and sexual dysfunction in young men.
Quality of Presentation: The authors present their ideas clearly and logically.
Their own case studies are relatively short and there does not appear to be any analyses specific to those cases.
However, they appropriately present other research to support their hypothesis.
Scientific Soundness: Three very brief case studies represent all of the original data presented in this paper.
There is no discussion of methods.
There does not appear to be any effort to obtain further information from these patients and no analysis of the cases is provided.
Interest to the Readers: The proposed conclusions made by the authors would be of interest to those in several disciplines, particularly health related fields.
Overall Merit: The potential link between excessive internet pornography use and sexual dysfunction in otherwise healthy young men is an important issue, which requires further research.
Although the case studies do little to further our knowledge in this area, the information presented in this paper provides a basis upon which to pursue further research.
English Level: The paper is well written and accessible to most readers in terms of disciplinary jargon.
SPECIFIC FEEDBACK:  The authors do not acknowledge performance anxiety as a potential cause of internet pornography use.
 Line 117-119 – what reference are the authors using for the term “abnormally low sexual desire” ?
Dear Janice, Our revised article is attached.
This letter summarizes the changes made at the request of the reviewers: • The paper has been restructured as a review with clinical reports, which led to replacing the title and abstract.
• The relevance of the clinical reports has been clarified.
These clinical reports foreshadow the type of research recommended by the authors, in which subjects would ideally remove the variable of porn use to improve investigation of internet porn’s effects.
• A few highly relevant studies have come out in the last couple of months and they have been integrated into the paper.
• The material about some users’ need for more extreme material to address concerns about sexual performance has been moved to the (b) Decreased Reward Sensitivity (Hypoactivity) section.
• The 2 specific comments of the second reviewer were incorporated or led to correction, as appropriate.
• A few minor grammatical and spacing errors have been corrected and the wording of some sections has been clarified.
Andrew Doan, M.D., Ph.D. CDR MC USN A-DMOP USNS Mercy, Med OIC Timor-Leste and Vietnam Head, Dept.
of Mental Health Addictions & Resilience Research Staff Ophthalmologist & Ocular Pathologist Naval Medical Center San Diego Assistant Professor, Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences & Loma Linda University