Author Response Please see the attachment.
Author Response File: Author Response.pdf
Author Response Please see the attachment.
Author Response File: Author Response.pdf
This manuscript adds evidence that NR2F1 is a dormancy marker.
In addition, it shows that NR2F1 is primarily expressed in CAFs, particularly in inflammatory CAFs.
Given that dormant disseminated tumor cells (DTCs) highly express NR2F1 (Fluegel et al.
Nat Cell Biol 2017), it is puzzling how NR2F1 in CAFs of the primary tumor would contribute to dormancy of DTCs.
It would be nice, if the authors would discuss this important point in more detail.
The authors choose chemotherapy as a treatment option to compare it with NR2F1 levels.
It would be interesting to see, how NR2F1 levels would change with endocrine treatment and/or endocrine resistance.
Breast cancer is a heterogenous disease.
Different subtypes behave differently in many aspects.
It would be great to see some subtype-specific data.
The authors state “We demonstrated that the expression of NR2F1, RARB, and TGFB1 genes are higher in previously established dormant cells (D2OR murine breast cancer cells [44] compared to the proliferative cells (D2A1 cells) in both 2D and 3D cultures (Figure 1A, all p < 0.02).” This is not true for NR2F1 in 2D.
Please correct.
The authors present interesting findings that a tumor dormancy marker, NR2F1, is predominantly expressed in the inflammatory CAFs, and high expression of NR2F1 is associated with suppressed immune response and increased density of stromal cells.
However, this reviewer has a few concerns that need to be addressed before accepting this article for publication.
Major: This reviewer noticed that all the analysis was performed on the public data sets of bulk RNA-seq or single cell sequencing of primary breast tumors.
Can the authors do some analyses using data generated from both primary and metastatic tumors to check if there is any difference of NR2F1 expression, and how NR2F1 expression is correlated with metastasis?
As mentioned by the authors in Figure 3, there is no correlation between NR2F1 expression in the primary breast tumor and late recurrence.
The authors need to analyze the single cell sequencing data and show whether the late recurrence in other organs, such as lung, bone, and brain, other than lymph node, is correlated with NR2F1 expression in the CAFs.
Otherwise, the authors cannot make a conclusion that CAF-expressed NR2F1 regulates breast tumor dormancy.
Moreover, the authors need to provide some, at least minimum, evidence or clues that CAF-expressed NR2F1 is responsible for tumor dormancy regulation.
Minor: Line 170, “Figure 1E” should be “Figure 1D”.
All my concerns have been satisfactorily addressed
This reviewer's comments have been addressed.
Author’s Point-by-point Response to Reviewers’ Comments [cancers-1746495] NR2F1, a tumor dormancy marker, is expressed predominantly in cancer-associated fibroblasts and is associated with suppressed breast cancer cell proliferation Reviewer #1 (General comments): This manuscript adds evidence that NR2F1 is a dormancy marker.
In addition, it shows that NR2F1 is primarily expressed in CAFs, particularly in inflammatory CAFs.
Response: We would like to thank reviewer #1 for his/her time and effort to review our manuscript.
Please find our point-by-point responses below.
Comment 1: Given that dormant disseminated tumor cells (DTCs) highly express NR2F1 (Fluegel et al.
Nat Cell Biol 2017), it is puzzling how NR2F1 in CAFs of the primary tumor would contribute to dormancy of DTCs.
It would be nice, if the authors would discuss this important point in more detail.
Response 1: We totally agree with the reviewer that it is puzzling how NR2F1 expressed in CAFs of the primary breast cancer contribute to the dormancy of DTCs, thus the addition of a discussion on this point in more detail will strengthen this manuscript.
Based on our results, NR2F1 expression in primary bulk tumor is associated with several pathways related to dormancy, and NR2F1 is most predominantly expressed in CAFs in the tumor microenvironment.
However, we did not prove the underlying mechanism through which CAF-expressed NR2F1 regulates dormancy, and we do not intend to claim a causal relationship.
Single-cell sequence data of metastatic tumor cohorts will allow us to investigate whether the expression of NR2F1 in CAFs in the metastatic TME is related to the dormancy of DTCs.
We added the following sentences to the discussion section.
Discussion section (Page 13, line 427): The current study demonstrated that NR2F1 expression in the bulk tumor of primary breast cancer is associated with decreased cell proliferation and cancer stem cell-like characteristics.
Previous studies mentioned that NR2F1 was highly expressed in DTCs [67].
We found that NR2F1 is most predominantly expressed in CAFs in the TME of primary breast cancer.
However, the findings from our study are not ample to substantiate that CAF-expressed NR2F1 regulates breast tumor dormancy.
Aguirre-Ghiso group recently demonstrated that NR2F1 agonist treatment induced cancer cell dormancy [21], which raised an expectation that NR2F1 expression in primary breast cancer may have the possibility to be a biomarker.
The novelty of our study is that it is CAFs, not cancer cells, that are the dominant source of NR2F1 expression in the bulk tumor.
To this end, we believe that NR2F1 expression in the bulk tumor does not reflect the expression in the cancer cells, thus its value as a biomarker is in doubt.
NR2F1 expression in cancer cells of primary breast cancer was not associated with cancer stem cell-like characteristics at all.
In order to prove that CAF-expressed NR2F1 regulates breast tumor dormancy, one needs to analyze the single-cell sequencing data and show whether the late recurrence in other organs, such as lungs, bones, and brain, other than lymph nodes, is correlated with NR2F1 expression in the CAFs.
Comment 2: The authors choose chemotherapy as a treatment option to compare it with NR2F1 levels.
It would be interesting to see, how NR2F1 levels would change with endocrine treatment and/or endocrine resistance.
Response 2: We agree with the reviewer that it would be interesting to see how NR2F1 levels would change with endocrine therapy.
However, we do not have access to cohorts that include tumor samples before and after neoadjuvant endocrine therapy at this point.
What we do have access to regarding endocrine therapy is a cohort comparing responders and non- responders to neoadjuvant endocrine therapy (GSE145325).
We found that NR2F1 expression between responders and non-responders to endocrine therapy was not different.
We added this to the results section as follows.
Results section (Page 11, line 346): There was no difference in NR2F1 expression between responder and non-responder to neoadjuvant endocrine therapy (Supplementary Fig.
9).
Supplementary Figure 9.
Expression of NR2F1 between endocrine therapy responder and non-responder in hormone-positive primary breast cancer.
Boxplots showing NR2F1 expression in responder and non-responder to neoadjuvant endocrine therapy in GSE145325.
Man-Whitney U test was used for analysis, symbol in the figure means as follows ns: p > 0.05.
Comment 3: Breast cancer is a heterogenous disease.
Different subtypes behave differently in many aspects.
It would be great to see some subtype-specific data.
Response 3: We agree with the reviewer that breast cancer is a heterogenous disease and we should show subtype-specific data.
We analyzed survival outcomes and the cell fraction in TME by each immunohistological subtype.
We did not observe any validated difference in survival outcomes.
Cell fractionation of immune cells and stromal cells showed almost similar trends for the scores such as intratumor heterogeneity, HRD, mutation rate, and neoantigens across all subtypes.
The results for each immunohistological subtype of single- cell Cohort 2 are shown in Supplementary Figure 7, and each subtype showed the same trend.
We have revised the results section and added supplementary data as follows.
Results section (Page 6, line 215): Given that breast cancer is a heterogenous disease, it was of interest to investigate the survival outcome by NR2F1 expression of each subtype.
The OS of NR2F1 high triple- negative and ER-positive/HER2-negative subtypes were associated with better survival in GSE96058, and DSS of NR2F1 high HER2-positive subtypes was associated with worse survival in METABRIC.
But none of these results were validated by the other breast cancer cohorts (Supplementary Figure 1-3).
Supplementary Figure 1.
Survival analysis between high and low NR2F1 group in triple-negative breast cancer.
Kaplan-Meier curves of overall survival (OS), disease- specific survival (DSS), and disease-free survival (DFS) based on the high and low NR2F1 expression in triple-negative breast cancer of three large cohorts.
Triple-negative subtype was determined by immunohistochemistry.
Log-rank test was used for the analysis, and significant p values are shown in bold.
p < 0.05 was considered significant.
Supplementary Figure 2.
Survival analysis between high and low NR2F1 group in ER- positive/HER2-negative breast cancer.
Kaplan-Meier curves of OS, DSS, and DFS based on the high and low NR2F1 expression in ER-positive/HER2-negative breast cancer of three large cohorts.
ER-positive/HER2-negative subtype was determined by immunohistochemistry.
Log-rank test was used for the analysis, and significant p values are shown in bold.
p < 0.05 was considered significant.
Supplementary Figure 3.
Survival analysis between high and low NR2F1 group in HER2 positive breast cancer.
Kaplan-Meier curves of OS, DSS, and DFS based on the high and low NR2F1 expression in HER2-positive breast cancer of three large cohorts.
HER2- positive subtype was determined by immunohistochemistry.
Log-rank test was used for the analysis, and significant p values are shown in bold.
p < 0.05 was considered significant.
Results section (Page 9, line 280): Further analysis by each immunohistological subtype showed the same trend that the fraction of stromal cells was significantly higher in the NR2F1 high group across multiple cohorts (Supplementary Figure 4-6).
Supplementary Figure 4.
Association of NR2F1 with immunity in the tumor microenvironment of triple-negative breast cancer.
(A) Boxplots showing various scores based on high and low NR2F1 expression in triple-negative breast cancer of TCGA; Intratumoral heterogeneity, homologous recombination deficiency (HRD), silent/non- silent mutation rate, SNV/Indel neoantigen, Interferon gamma response, fraction altered, tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) fraction, and stromal fraction.
(B) Boxplots showing immune and stromal cell fractions between NR2F1 high and low group in triple-negative breast cancer of three large cohorts.
Man-Whitney U test was used to compare the two groups and p-values are shown in bold for significant results (p < 0.05).
Supplementary Figure 5.
Association of NR2F1 with immunity within the tumor microenvironment of ER-positive and HER2 negative breast cancer.
(A) Boxplots showing various scores based on high and low NR2F1 expression in ER-positive and HER2 negative breast cancer of TCGA; Intratumoral heterogeneity, homologous recombination deficiency (HRD), silent/non-silent mutation rate, SNV/Indel neoantigen, Interferon gamma response, fraction altered, tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) fraction, and stromal fraction.
(B) Boxplots showing immune and stromal cell fractions between NR2F1 high and low group in ER-positive and HER2 negative breast cancer of three large cohorts.
Man-Whitney U test was used to compare the two groups and p-values are shown in bold for significant results (p < 0.05).
Supplementary Figure 6.
Association of NR2F1 with immunity within the tumor microenvironment of HER2 positive breast cancer.
(A) Boxplots showing various scores based on high and low NR2F1 expression in HER2 positive breast cancer of TCGA; Intratumoral heterogeneity, homologous recombination deficiency (HRD), silent/non- silent mutation rate, SNV/Indel neoantigen, Interferon gamma response, fraction altered, tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) fraction, and stromal fraction.
(B) Boxplots showing immune and stromal cell fractions between NR2F1 high and low group in HER2 positive breast cancer of three large cohorts.
Man-Whitney U test was used to compare the two groups and p-values are shown in bold for significant results (p < 0.05).
Supplementary Figure 7.
Expression of NR2F1 and dormancy-related genes by immunohistological breast cancer subtypes in Cohort 2.
(A) Violin plots showing NR2F1 expression by cell type in triple-negative (TNBC), HER2 positive (HER2+), and ER- positive HER2 negative (ER+) tumors in single-cell Cohort 2.
One dot represents one cell.
After multi-group comparison, baseline NR2F1 expression and expression in each cell type were compared in two groups by the one-way ANOVA test.
Also, dot plots show the expression of NR2F1, TGFB1, SOX9, and RARB by cell type in each immunohistological subtype in single-cell Cohort 2.
The size of each dot indicates the number of cells, and the purple intensity indicates the expression level.
(B) The violin plot shows NR2F1 expression in inflammatory CAFs (iCAFs) and myofibroblasts (myCAFs) by immunohistological subtypes in single-cell Cohort 2.
Symbols in the figure mean as follows ns: p > 0.05, *: p ≦ 0.05, **: p ≦ 0.01, ***: p ≦ 0.001, ****: p ≦ 0.0001.
Comment 4: The authors state “We demonstrated that the expression of NR2F1, RARB, and TGFB1 genes are higher in previously established dormant cells (D2OR murine breast cancer cells [44] compared to the proliferative cells (D2A1 cells) in both 2D and 3D cultures (Figure 1A, all p < 0.02).” This is not true for NR2F1 in 2D.
Please correct.
Response 4: We thank the reviewer for reading our manuscript closely and pointing out our oversight.
As you indicated, we did not find any significance difference in 2D in Figure 1A and have corrected the results section as follows.
Results section (Page 4, line 157): We demonstrated that the expression of the NR2F1 gene is higher in previously established dormant cells (D2OR murine breast cancer cells) [44] compared to the proliferative cells (D2A1 cells) in 3D cultures, and the expression of RARB and TGFB1 genes are higher in dormant cells compared to the proliferative cells in both 2D and 3D cultures (Figure 1A, all p < 0.02) Comment 5: The manuscript needs mild English proofing, mainly the abstract.
Response 5: We agree with the reviewers' suggestion that the manuscript needs mild English proofing.
We have thoroughly reviewed our manuscript for grammar and spelling errors and mistakes were corrected.
We have also corrected the errors in the abstract.
The revised abstract is shown below.
Abstracts (Page 1, line 32): Background: Tumor dormancy is a crucial mechanism responsible for the late recurrence of breast cancer.
Thus, we investigated the clinical relevance of the expression of NR2F1, a known dormancy biomarker.
Methods: A total of 6758 transcriptomes of bulk tumors from multiple breast cancer patient cohorts and two single-cell sequence cohorts were analyzed.
Results: Breast cancer (BC) with high NR2F1 expression, enriched TGFβ signaling, multiple metastases, and stem cell- related pathways.
Cell proliferation-related gene sets were suppressed and MKi67 expression was lower in high NR2F1 BC.
In tumors with high Nottingham grade, NR2F1 expression was found to be lower.
There was no consistent relationship between NR2F1 expression and metastasis or survival.
Cancer mutation rates, immune responses, and immune cell infiltrations were lower in high NR2F1 tumors whereas the infiltration of stromal cells including cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) was higher.
Surprisingly, NR2F1 was predominantly expressed in CAFs, particularly inflammatory CAFs, ra-ther than in cancer cells, consistently in the two single-cell sequence cohorts.
Conclusions: NR2F1 expression in breast cancer is associated with tumor dormancy traits and it is predominantly ex-pressed in CAFs in the tumor microenvironment.
We would like to thank the reviewer for his/her thoughtful and thorough review of our manuscript, which significantly strengthened our manuscript.
Author’s Point-by-point Response to Reviewers’ Comments [cancers-1746495] NR2F1, a tumor dormancy marker, is expressed predominantly in cancer-associated fibroblasts and is associated with suppressed breast cancer cell proliferation Reviewer #2 (General comments): The authors present interesting findings that a tumor dormancy marker, NR2F1, is predominantly expressed in the inflammatory CAFs, and high expression of NR2F1 is associated with suppressed immune response and increased density of stromal cells.
However, this reviewer has a few concerns that need to be addressed before accepting this article for publication.
Response: We are grateful to the reviewer for her/his time and effort in reviewing our paper, as well as for pointing out issues to improve the paper.
Comment 1: This reviewer noticed that all the analysis was performed on the public data sets of bulk RNA-seq or single cell sequencing of primary breast tumors.
Can the authors do some analyses using data generated from both primary and metastatic tumors to check if there is any difference of NR2F1 expression, and how NR2F1 expression is correlated with metastasis?
Response 1: We completely agree with the reviewer that it will be informative to demonstrate the NR2F1 expression in both primary and metastatic breast cancer and the possible correlation of NR2F1 expression with metastasis.
In Figure 3C, we present NR2F1 expression in primary breast cancer with and without distant metastases.
NR2F1 expression was not increased in the group with later recurrence in four cohorts in this analysis.
We also present NR2F1 expression between primary and metastatic breast cancer in Figure 3E with no significant difference.
We did not find a clear association of NR2F1 with distant metastasis in this study.
On the other hand, NR2F1 expression was higher in primary breast tumors with lymph node metastasis in all four cohorts, as shown in Figure 3B, suggesting an association between NR2F1 and lymph node metastasis.
Given these results, we revised the results section as follows.
Results section (Page 6, line 221): We investigated the association of NR2F1 expression with metastasis.
No significant difference was found in the NR2F1 expression with and without distant metastasis in 5 independent primary breast cancer cohorts (Figure 3B).
On the other hand, NR2F1 expression was higher in the group with lymph node metastasis in three out of four cohorts (Figure 3C).
In addition, there was no difference in NR2F1 expression in primary breast cancer based on based on the known site of relapse (Figure 3D).
It was also of interest to compare the expression of NR2F1 between primary and metastatic breast cancer, but there was no difference observed in the NR2F1 expression between both groups (Figure 3E).
Comment 2: As mentioned by the authors in Figure 3, there is no correlation between NR2F1 expression in the primary breast tumor and late recurrence.
The authors need to analyze the single cell sequencing data and show whether the late recurrence in other organs, such as lung, bone, and brain, other than lymph node, is correlated with NR2F1 expression in the CAFs.
Otherwise, the authors cannot make a conclusion that CAF-expressed NR2F1 regulates breast tumor dormancy.
Moreover, the authors need to provide some, at least minimum, evidence or clues that CAF-expressed NR2F1 is responsible for tumor dormancy regulation.
Response 2: We completely agree with the reviewer that NR2F1 expression in cancer cells and CAFs should be investigated not only in primary but also in metastatic breast cancer using single- cell sequence in order to prove that NR2F1 expression in CAFs affects late recurrence.
The main finding of this study is that NR2F1 is predominantly expressed in CAFs rather than in all other cell types in the TME, and we do not intend to claim that CAF-expressed NR2F1 regulates dormancy.
Further, we do not have access to single-cell sequence cohorts of metastatic breast cancer tumors, but it is of our interest, and this will be our future direction.
In response to the reviewer, we added the following sentences in the discussion section.
Discussion section (Page 13, line 427): The current study demonstrated that NR2F1 expression in the bulk tumor of primary breast cancer is associated with decreased cell proliferation and cancer stem cell-like characteristics.
Previous studies mentioned that NR2F1 was highly expressed in DTCs [67].
We found that NR2F1 is most predominantly expressed in CAFs in the TME of primary breast cancer.
However, the findings from our study are not ample to substantiate that CAF-expressed NR2F1 regulates breast tumor dormancy.
Aguirre-Ghiso group recently demonstrated that NR2F1 agonist treatment induced cancer cell dormancy [21], which raised an expectation that NR2F1 expression in primary breast cancer may have the possibility to be a biomarker.
The novelty of our study is that it is CAFs, not cancer cells, that are the dominant source of NR2F1 expression in the bulk tumor.
To this end, we believe that NR2F1 expression in the bulk tumor does not reflect the expression in the cancer cells, thus its value as a biomarker is in doubt.
NR2F1 expression in cancer cells of primary breast cancer was not associated with cancer stem cell-like characteristics at all.
In order to prove that CAF-expressed NR2F1 regulates breast tumor dormancy, one needs to analyze the single-cell sequencing data and show whether the late recurrence in other organs, such as lungs, bones, and brain, other than lymph nodes, is correlated with NR2F1 expression in the CAFs.
Comment 3: Line 170, “Figure 1E” should be “Figure 1D”.
Response 3: We thank the reviewer for closely reading our manuscript and pointing out our oversight.
We have corrected the results section as answered in Responce1.
We would like to thank the reviewer for his/her thoughtful and thorough review of our manuscript, which significantly strengthened our manuscript.