Author Response Dear Reviewer, Many thanks for your comments and suggestions.
Your review truly helped improve further the paper.
Below we provide the details on how your comments and suggestions have been addressed.
We take this review as a valuable opportunity to foster the quality of the paper.
1- Need to update the literature review with recent studies We added more coherent theoretical arguments to the discussion based on the most recently published relevant academic papers on the topic (lines 125-133, 153-158, 442-452).
The incorporated studies include Yarram and Adapa (2021), Boukattaya and Omri (2021), Shakil (2021), Wang, Wilson & Li, (2021), Cordeiro et al 2020, Birindelli, et al.
(2019), and Nuber & Velte (2021).
In total, the list of references increased from 21 to 36.
The details of these studies and the logic behind their inclusion are explained in the text (pages 3 and 4).
For the quantitative papers, our guiding line is the inclusion of papers proposing a reliable strategy to address the problem of endogeneity characterizing virtually all studies dealing with gender diversity.
In a nutshell, gender diversity and firms’ performances (be they financial, ESG or environmental) have reverse causality.
More gender-diverse boards are found to improve firms’ performances, and at the same time, better performing firms are more attractive to females.
Any study incorporating these two variables would suffer from endogeneity.
Therefore, inference and results are biased.
Finding an instrument for gender diversity becomes a concern of first importance.
The task is challenging as all potential candidates for being a suitable instrument should be already part of the regression equation.
So far, the literature has not found an instrument unanimously agreed upon.
This is the reason for which our selection of papers is rather limited.
We focused on those papers with a choice of instrumental variables that are well explained and papers that ‘’go around’’ the problem by making use of a method that does not rely on external instruments.
This includes papers using difference-GMM or system-GMM estimators.
Their principal advantage is the use of internal instruments instead of external ones.
Indeed, the instruments chosen are difference and the level of the covariates themselves.
There are only a few of these studies available, including ours.
This again explains the relatively restricted number of references we are considering.
2- Please add a theoretical background section Initially, we opted for integrating the theoretical background disseminated throughout the text to connect to the findings of related papers and to avoid redundancy and repetition.
Changes that we incorporated in response to this comment improve the overall theoretical framework of the paper, including concepts, definitions and links to relevant literature.
We also articulated theoretical assumptions and added a comprehensive discussion of the observed phenomena.
Specifically, we added critical mass theory discussion in the literature review section (lines 125-132).
We added interpretation of corresponding results in the findings and discussions section (lines 445-452) and the conclusion section (lines 482-503).
These changes in addition to the existing discussions of theories and concepts significantly improve the theoretical background of the paper.
3- What are the policy implications of your study We answered this comment along different dimensions.
We revise and elaborate on the explanation and interpretation of the results.
We provide further explanations on the ways political and economic uncertainty shapes the relationship between corporate board gender diversity and firms’ environmental performance.
We also emphasize the policy implications of these findings (lines 453-462, 497-503).
To better reflect the policy implications of the study, we incorporate changes that are diffuse through the text.
In particular, we argue that promoting gender diversity cannot deliver its full potential, and may even lead to adverse results unless it is accompanied by measures that mitigate political and economic uncertainty.
These measures would create an enabling environment both for households and entrepreneurs.
Such measures should increase agents’ confidence, dump their willingness to invest and expand the activity by reducing their aversion to risk.
The accompanying measures should primarily target building and strengthening institutions to unlock this potential.
Institutions are a defence against uncertainty.
They contribute to anchoring economic agents’ expectations and stabilize the economy.
We also elaborate on the finding of the critical mass theory.
This result suggests that a very effective way to improve environmental quality and mitigate the adverse effects of economic activities is to encourage gender diversity in corporate boards in countries with low uncertainty where we find a higher impact on firms’ environmental performances.
In these countries, the margin for progress is large and the effect of improving gender diversity in corporate boards materializes more easily and at lower costs, as these countries are far from their efficiency frontiers (lines 445-461 and 482-503).
4- Add a discussion of results section and relate your results with theories.
We addressed your suggestion to improve arguments and discussion of findings by revising existing and adding new paragraphs better explaining regression coefficients that demonstrate how political and economic uncertainty shapes the relationship between corporate board gender diversity and firms’ environmental performance.
(Lines 379-389).
Furthermore, we added supporting arguments disseminated across the text (particularly in lines 348-361, lines 379-389, etc).
These relate our finding to theory.
We focus here on the attitude towards risk and uncertainties.
The related theory posits that females’ attitude when facing uncertainty is different from males.
Women on corporate boards tend to be more risk-averse and lean more toward conservatism in uncertain environments.
They tend to exhibit a strong inclination to wait until the uncertainty is resolved before making major business decisions.
Therefore, the more females there are on corporate boards, the higher their weight in the board decisions would be, and by the same token, the higher the effect of uncertainty on firms’ decisions.
Moreover, we also relate our findings to the critical mass theory, suggesting that the impact of gender diversity on the environmental performances of firms materializes only when a critical mass weight of females is realized in corporate boards (Konrad et al.
2008, Torchia et al.
2011, Schwartz-Ziv, 2017- page 12, lines 445-451).
Author Response Dear Reviewer, Many thanks for your comments and suggestions.
Your review truly helped improve further the paper.
Below we provide the details on how your comments and suggestions have been addressed.
We take this review as a valuable opportunity to foster the quality of the paper.
The only remark on the content refers to “Are the arguments and discussion of finding coherent, balanced and compelling?
Can be improved”.
The reviewer kindly gives details of the elements that can be improved in the field ‘’Comments and Suggestion for Authors’’.
We address each of them as follows: "To the best of our knowledge, this is the only study that addresses the role of economic and political uncertainty as a moderator in a model that accounts for the dynamic patterns of firm environmental performance" (line 128).
--> I believe the authors intended "moderating role."
Absolutely.
Changed accordingly (line 160).
“The authors could go into greater detail to explain the logic behind this relationship.
As it stands, the paper offers little insight into the reasoning behind their hypothesis.” We answered this comment along different dimensions.
We revise and elaborate on the explanation and interpretation of the results.
We provide further explanations on the ways political and economic uncertainty shapes the relationship between corporate board gender diversity and firms’ environmental performance.
We also emphasize the policy implications of these findings (lines 453-461, 487-496).
In addition, we add more theoretical arguments to the discussion based on the most recently published academic papers on the topic.
(Lines 421-452) “It would be useful if the authors provided some speculative thoughts on the finding that the slope of the GenDiv variable is negative in highly uncertain countries on the firm's environmental performance (Figure 3 (c) red line).” To address this comment, we added supporting arguments disseminated across the text (particularly in lines 348-361, lines 421-428, etc).
These explain the finding you are referring to by attitude towards risk and uncertainties.
The related theory posits that females’ attitude when facing uncertainty is different from males.
Women on corporate boards tend to be more risk-averse and lean more toward conservatism in an uncertain environment.
They tend to exhibit a strong inclination to wait until the uncertainty is resolved before making major business decisions.
Therefore, the more females there are on corporate boards, the higher would be their weight in the board decisions, and by the same token, the higher would be the effect of uncertainty on firms’ decisions.
Author Response Please see the attachment Author Response File: Author Response.pdf
I believe that, despite being a topic that is widely discussed in the literature, it is interesting to be able to provide new orientations, in this case the gender diversity firms’ environmental performances .
I see the work interesting, although it needs a good reorientation, in order to make it more attractive to reading.
I consider the paper can bring interesting contributions in various fields.
However, I will make some suggestions, so that it can be improved.
1- need to update the literature review with recent studies 2- Please add a theoretical background section 3- What are the policy implications of your study 4- Add discussion of results section and relate your results with theories.
Thank you for your hard work.
This is a well-executed study with a solid research base.
I only have a few minor concerns that I'd like the authors to clarify and address when revising.
"To the best of our knowledge, this is the only study that addresses the role of economic and political uncertainty as a moderator in a model that accounts for the dynamic patterns of firm environmental performance" (line 128).
--> I believe the authors intended "moderating role."
The authors could go into greater detail to explain the logic behind this relationship.
As it stands, the paper offers little insight into the reasoning behind their hypothesis.
It would be useful if the authors provided some speculative thoughts on the finding that the slope of the GenDiv variable is negative in highly uncertain countries on the firm's environmental performance (Figure 3 (c) red line).
Overall, I believe that this study has a high potential to add to the literature on the relationship between gender diversity and firm environmental performance.
Best wishes for your future research.
Dear Authors The paper has been significantly improved since the previous version.
Yet, some issues still need to be addressed: 1- In lines 28 and onwards, you argue a lack of literature looking at dynamic (GMM) analysis of the role of female on CSR and ESG issues, but fail to mention some examples.
Please provide some, and position your work in that (brief) strand of literature.
One example you should consider is Gaio, C., & Gonçalves, T. C. (2022).
Gender diversity on the board and firms’ corporate social responsibility.
International Journal of Financial Studies, 10(1), 15.
2- Please revise if it makes sense to present your research hypothesis in the introduction.
3- Please reconsider the use of adjectives such as "complicated" (line 79), interestingly (line 88) and so on.
4- What do you mean by "in the crowd" (line 141).
Please revise carefully english for clarity.
5- Please revise your data: your max tangibility is over 2 (which means that Net PP&E, a subset of Assets, is 2 times those same Assets - this should be a typo.
Similar problems might exist for a negative tobin's Q.
6 - In line 192 you mention "all the sectors".
But you are working one sector only, aren't you?
7- Explain your sentences in lines 242-244.
What did you do specifically?
8- Lines 330 and onwards are presenting conclusions that are not warranted by the results and the english is a bit strange (what do you measnby "households' anxiety"?).
Similar problems stem from the following paragraphs discussing the results.
Thank you for your paper.
Kind regards
1 Response to Reviewer 3 Comments 1- In lines 28 and onwards, you argue a lack of literature looking at dynamic (GMM) analysis of the role of female on CSR and ESG issues, but fail to mention some examples.
Please provide some, and position your work in that (brief) strand of literature.
One example you should consider is Gaio, C., & Gonçalves, T. C. (2022).
Gender diversity on the board and firms’ corporate social responsibility.
International Journal of Financial Studies, 10(1), 15.
Response: The literature on the relationship between gender diversity and environmental performances of firms that addresses dynamic endogeneity is rather limited.
We mention Gaio and Gonçalves (2022), Lu and Herremans (2019), Kassini et al (2016), Silla, et al (2016) that opt for a dynamic modelling using a System-GMM estimator.
This estimator is particularly suitable to panels with large number of individual and few time periods, which the case for our paper.
Moreover, it accommodates situations where the independent variable changes slowly (Antoniou et al., 2008).
To keep a good flow in the text, we only mention these papers in the introduction section.
We elaborate further on them in the literature review section.
We describe their main purpose and explain how our analysis departs from them.
2- Please revise if it makes sense to present your research hypothesis in the introduction.
Response: Thanks for the Suggestion.
We highlighted the research hypothesis by moving it the introduction.
We also added another hypothesis.
The first relates to the very existence of a relationship between gender diversity on corporate boards and firms’ performances.
The second, deals with the intensity and shape of this relationship.
We believe, this adds a deal of clarity to the text and purpose of the paper.
3- Please reconsider the use of adjectives such as "complicated" (line 79), interestingly (line 88) and so on.
Response: We reviewed all the text and changed wording in different parts of the text.
2 4- What do you mean by "in the crowd" (line 141).
Please revise carefully English for clarity.
Response: We initially meant, among all these papers, there is one that… We rephrased this sentence and reviewed all the text.
We edited sentences when needed.
5- Please revise your data: your max tangibility is over 2 (which means that Net PP&E, a subset of Assets, is 2 times those same Assets - this should be a typo.
Similar problems might exist for a negative tobin's Q.
Response: In our initial submission, we used winsorized data for all our econometric analysis.
However, we, inadvertently, displayed summary statistics (Table 2) for raw data, i.e., before winsorizing.
We should have reported only winsorized summary statistics.
This is precisely what we do in this revised version of the paper.
The reason for winsorizing data (beyond its advantage of having regular statistical distribution) was that we initially have detected outliers.
Further investigation revealed that one company (RIC: OBE.TO; CompName: Obsidian Energy Ltd) is responsible for these outliers.
The company had presumably reported wrong values in FY-12, where PP&E was higher than Total Assets (see table below from Refinitiv Eikon).
RIC: OBE.TO Company Name: Obsidian Energy Ltd Property/Plant/Equipment, Total - Net Total Assets, Reported Tangibility FY0 1062292227 1131233180 0.9390568 FY-1 711076198 757344854.7 0.9389068 FY-2 1312952410 1466194363 0.8954832 FY-3 1887511916 1943242649 0.9713208 FY-4 2241393019 2391667329 0.9371676 FY-5 2220402085 2486224870 0.8930818 FY-6 3893344895 4280656117 0.9095206 FY-7 7239628163 8479944913 0.8537353 FY-8 9152542373 11609227872 0.7883851 FY-9 11592581393 14551960488 0.7966336 3 FY-10 12077896596 15288923771 0.7899769 FY-11 11383565767 14591150798 0.7801692 FY-12 27834189009 13192622172 2.1098299 FY-13 10235922729 12669132758 0.8079419 FY-14 7439783220 8463468487 0.8790466 We have reported this case to Refinitiv (Case number: 11297339) and our doubts were confirmed (See their response below).
Refinitiv Eikon replaced old value of PP&E (27834189009) with a correct value (10788172656).
Hi Lasha, We have investigated your query for RIC – OBE.TO for the year 2009(FY-12) Property/Plant/Equipment, Total - Net is bigger than Total assets, as reported and confirm that we have amended Property, plant and equipment which was incorrectly captured and sent the correct data to product.
Amended data is already available on the product.
Please find the details in the attachment for Total Assets, Property, plant and equipment pulled in eikon excel and find the Eikon excel formula.
=@TR("OBE.TO","TR.TotalAssetsReported;TR.PropertyPlantEquipmentTotalNet","Period=FY0 Frq=FY SDate=0 EDate=-12 Curn=USD CH=Fd RH=IN;periodenddate;currency;rfperiod",C3) We have worked with content team to avoid this type of issue henceforth.
We deeply regret the inconvenience caused due to this.
Please let me know if you have any questions.
Regards, Pavagal Latha Fundamentals Content Support In order to avoid similar mistakes, we opted for winsorizing data and avoid outliers.
Similarly, only one company had negative Tobins’ Q in 2017 (RIC: ELR.TO ; company name: Eastern Platinum Ltd), which was a reporting typo as well.
However, our analysis is not affected by these outliers which are removed after winsorizing all the variables.
In this revised version of the paper, we replace the table of summary statistics with the one based on winsorized variables.
4 6 - In line 192 you mention "all the sectors".
But you are working one sector only, aren't you?
Response: The sentence “The global average of corporate boards’ gender diversity for all the sectors during 2008-2018 was about 13.5%” is correct as it is calculated based on all industries (5120 firms in total).
However, since we are focusing on “Mining, Quarrying, and Oil and Gas Extraction Industry”, it makes more sense indeed to report the value for that particular sector.
Therefore, we update the text as follows: “The average of corporate boards’ gender diversity for Mining, Quarrying, and Oil and Gas Extraction Industry during 2008-2018 was about 9.6%”.
7- Explain your sentences in lines 242-244.
What did you do specifically?
Response: This is an explanation of the following sentence in our article: “To avoid bias and inconsistency that might be caused by instruments proliferation, we collapse the instruments matrix.” We are using longer lags of the dependent variable as additional instruments.
Intuitively, there is a trade-off, on one hand, using longer lags gives more information and improves efficiency, but on the other hand sample gets smaller (as it is the case in standard 2SLS models).
GMM is a way around this trade-off between lag length and sample length.
However, implementation of System-GMM is not exempt from weaknesses.
With the instruments count being quadratic in the time dimension, the variance matrix of the moments can be very large.
Estimating its elements may be problematic in particular in a finite sample lacking the adequate amount of information.
This finite sample bias can weaken Hansen J-test and overstate its p-value and therefore generate suspicious high pass rate of instruments validity.
The problem is known as instruments proliferation (Roodman 2009).
To avoid bias and inconsistency due to instruments proliferation, we limit the number of instruments used and collapse the instrument matrix which prevents the model from being over-fitted.
8- Lines 330 and onwards are presenting conclusions that are not warranted by the results and the english is a bit strange (what do you mean by "households' anxiety"?).
Similar problems stem from the following paragraphs discussing the results.
Response: We revised the concerned section and rewrote the text in order to improve on clarity.
The revised text reads as follows: Greater gender diversity for a firm located in a country with high political and economic uncertainty would lower the firm’s environmental performance (0.616-0.853=-0.237).
More precisely, a 1 percentage point increase in GenDiv in a country with high political and economic uncertainty 5 leads to an average decline of 0.24% in the firm’s environmental performance in the following year.
This suggests that the previous finding on the positive relationship between more gender-diverse boards and a firms’ environmental performances tends to be conditional on reduced policy and economic uncertainty.
More gender-diverse corporate boards would not lead to better environmental performances of firms in countries with higher uncertainty (higher WUI score).
The rational for this result stems from the idea that uncertainty adversely affects the enabling environment of an economy.
This may induce financial outcomes for firms that are so negative and diffuse that they could hardly be balanced by the benefits brought with more gender- diverse boards (Bloom 2014, Atsu and Adams 2021).
Indeed, uncertainty hampers household confidence and makes it difficult for businesses to plan for the future.
The lack of visibility for future economic and political prospects undermines agents’ confidence and further raises their aversion to risk.
In terms of policy, our finding suggests that promoting gender diversity on corporate boards should be accompanied by measures that reduce political and economic uncertainty.
This is particularly relevant for countries vulnerable to shocks whether internal or external (Covid-19, war, conflicts, trade tensions, etc.).
These can further exacerbate agents’ risk-aversion and deteriorate the market ability to create a sound economic and political environment in which agents interact effectively.
In order to assess which level of the country’s uncertainty induces the negative effect of gender diversity, we introduce interaction terms with WUI quartile dummies (again, with two specifications, allowing slope and then the both slope and intercept to change).
The findings are summarized in Table 4 (columns 3 and 4).
They suggest that the interaction term with only the last quartile is statistically significant (at the 10% level), indicating that the impact of GenDiv on environmental performance is mostly driven by highly uncertain countries (those in the last quartile of the distribution).
Countries below the 75th percentile of the WUI do not exhibit statistically significant differences among each other.
We investigate this finding further by examining, for different gender diversity levels, (a) the intensity of the relationship across high and low uncertainty levels and (b) the marginal impact of a country’s uncertainty status on the firm’s environmental performance (Figure 3).
We find that in countries with a high (above median) uncertainty level, the environmental performances of firms are significantly lower than in countries with low uncertainty, and this impact is magnified as gender diversity in corporate boards increases.
The finding is robust for both specifications, with fixed and without fixed intercepts.
Higher gender diversity in countries with lower uncertainty increases a firm’s environmental performance, whereas, in countries with high uncertainty, an increase in female board members has a negligible positive impact (Figure 3a) or even a negative impact (Figure 3c).
The gap in environmental performance between countries with high versus low uncertainty increases as gender diversity in corporate boards increases.
A potential explanation of this finding refers to the exacerbating effects of political and economic uncertainties on entrepreneurs’ risk-aversion.
This, in turn, discourages in-vestments in costly abatements technologies and environmental-friendly processes.
More generally, increased risk aversion reduces investments and activities whose returns accrue more in a long-run.
These include research and development efforts, and particularly 6 environmental-led activities, which are seen as secondary in firms’ scale of priorities.
Ultimately, this would put pressure on firms’ behavior and worsen their environmental performances (Bloom, 20149; Atsu and Adams, 202137).
The arguments above provides a rationale for the worsened environmental performances of firms in response to higher uncertainties, and explains the gap in effects for firms across countries of different uncertainty levels.
However, this does not address the potential reasons behind the widening of this gap for higher gender diversity levels.
One potential explanation of this result relates to the particular attitude of women toward risk.
Females on boards tend to exhibit more risk aversion compared to their male peers.
They tend to show more patience and are typically more willing to look for professional guidance when facing uncertainty (Liu, 201838).
Females on boards tend to be more inclined to wait until uncertainty is resolved before making major business decisions.
Therefore, the more females on corporate boards, the greater the weight of their decisions (i.e., the higher would be the effect of uncertainty in firms’ decisions).
This finding begs the question of whether the differential between countries with high versus low uncertainly levels is statistically significant for increasing gender diversity levels.
Figure 3 (b and d) trace the magnitude of the gap between the low and high uncertainty scores.
It states that this gap is increasing, in absolute value, and is statistically significant at the 95% level for all values of gender diversity (for gender diversity levels larger than 10%, for both specification Figures 3b and 3d).
This threshold value points to a standard and very important result in the literature.
This refers to the critical mass theory, by which the impact of gender diversity on the environmental performance of firms materializes only when a critical mass weight of females is realized in corporate boards (Konrad et al., 200839; Torchia et al., 201140; Schwartz-Ziv, 201741; among others).
This suggests that an effective way to improve environmental quality and mitigate the adverse effects of economic activities is to encourage gender diversity in corporate boards in countries with low uncertainty where we find a higher impact on the firms’ environmental performances.
In terms of policy, our findings suggest that promoting gender diversity cannot reach full potential, and may even lead to adverse results unless accompanied by measures that mitigate political and economic uncertainty.
These measures would create an enabling environment both for households and entrepreneurs.
These reduce their aversion to risk, which increases their confidence and willingness to invest.
To unlock this potential, a country should implement accompanying measures that promote and strengthen stable institutions – as a defense against uncertainty.
They contribute to anchoring economic agents’ expectations, and stabilize the economy.